# Splice-site filtering
Before we finish off merging the different annotation, we could take care of the splice-site. In fact, it is a good practice to remove possible false positive splice site, which very often are present in our `BAM` file.
A tool that efficiently does the job is [`portcullis`](https://portcullis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html). PORTable CULLing of Invalid Splice junctions' algorithm is designed to be as portable as possible so it does not rely on esoteric SAM tags and other artifacts that are not consistently present in all SAM/BAMs, and uses a AI. You can find more details in its well-documented web page.

Let's first set a couple of variables such as the `BAM` files we're going to process and a threshold for the filtering stage
```bash
TH=0.5
BAMS=`ls -1 $SPECIES.RNA.$CHRNAME.Aligned.sortedByCoord.out.bam $SPECIES.lonrRNA.$CHRNAME.sortedByCoord.out.bam
```

This prepares all the input data into a format suitable for junction analysis.
```bash
portcullis prep -c -o $SPECIES.portcullis_prep -t $THREADS $CHR $BAMS
```

In this stage, `Portcullis` analyses the BAM file to look for alignments containing gaps (REFSKIP ‘N’ cigar ops) and creates a detailed analysis of all distinct gaps detected, potential junctions.
A number of observations are made for each junction such as:
1. number of supporting split reads
2. how those reads are distributed around the junction
3. the actual nucleotides representing the splice sites
4. how repetitive the genomic region is around the splice sits
```bash
portcullis junc -o $SPECIES.portcullis_junc/portcullis -t $THREADS --extra -v $SPECIES.
```

By default Portcullis uses a machine learning (ML_ approach, which trains on a high-confidence subset of the data, and then applies the trained model to the full set in order to score each junction.
```bash
portcullis filter --threshold $TH -t $THREADS -v -o $SPECIES.portcullis_filter.$TH/portcullis \
 	--save_bad $SPECIES.portcullis_prep $SPECIES.portcullis_junc/portcullis.junctions.tab
```

Now we do a small in the one of the field of the `bed` file, in order to keep track of the effect of the threshold that we used.
```bash
sed "s/ junctions/ $TH junctions/"  $SPECIES.portcullis_filter.$TH/portcullis.pass.junctions.bed > portcullis.$TH.pass.junctions.bed
```

Now the final file can be viewed on IGV or other genome browsers and used in the next step of the pipeline where we will merge all the annotations we generated so far.
